---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-03-20"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-03-20
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-03-20.20meeting/with/580651596
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/rJYOmT99bl
---

# 2026-03-20 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Hristian Kirtchev
- Eric Huss
- Pete LeVasseur
- Tomas Sedovic
- Alex Celeste
- Tshepang Mbambo
- TC

### Regrets

- Nurzhan

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- 1.94.0 Release [minuted]
- Progress towards generated glossary! [minuted?]
- [Changelog language proposal](https://hackmd.io/@dx8cnV3PTMqrN-TyxXhJcA/HkKDuzOc-g)
- Think about 1.95.0 already, look at Beta? [minuted?]

### Walk-in topics

Hristian: What are we doing with the [changelog language proposal](https://hackmd.io/@dx8cnV3PTMqrN-TyxXhJcA/HkKDuzOc-g)?

***

Tshepang: How to generate the issue for Beta? What the Release team uses for generating the release notes from.


### 1.94.0 Release

Pete: This is good to ship. Hristian did all the work, thankfully there wasn't a lot we needed to put in. Are we good to cut the 1.94 release?

Hristian: I think so.

Tshepang: +1

Pete: For the release, I believe we just change the string in the FLS source text.

Tshepang: Yes, and already done.

Pete: Yay

Hristian: That string has to be changed after all the issues were closed.

### Progress towards generated glossary!

Tshepang: This tracking issue summarizes it: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/680

Tshepang: I have a PR that explores not using IDs: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/681

Pete: So summary: there's some definition in the glossary, another one in the main text and there's nothing keeping them together. There's chance of drift. This has been a long-standing issue in the FLS and Tshepang's proposal would help here. What does everyone here think? Let's read through it, look at the PR and then discuss?

(five-ish minutes pass)

Pete: Initial thoughts? I agree on this, this is the right direction.

Hristian: There are certain classes of terms that act as ways to inline semantics. These don't have class definition, e.g.: https://rust-lang.github.io/fls/patterns.html#identifier-pattern-matching

Hristian: Look at the "Identifier pattern matching". There's a lot of these semantics that we don't necessarily want all put in one section.

Pete: Good point, I agree. Any suggestions on how to resolve?

Pete: We could note it as a known issue and think about fixing it?

Tshepang: This seems like a bug.

Pete: Hristian, can you open an issue and link it to Tshepang's tracking issue?


### [Changelog language proposal](https://hackmd.io/@dx8cnV3PTMqrN-TyxXhJcA/HkKDuzOc-g)

Hristian: There are 2 sentence patterns with cases that only have 1 paragraph involved or multiple paragraphs. There's another pattern for "no change entries".

Pete: You've noticed at looking at the changelog? The idea is that we'd accept this and then stick to this format going forward?

Hristian: Yes.

Pete: This seems good to me. Thoughts from folks?

Tshepang: I'm not sure we should put glossary entries into the changelog. Since they'll be generated.

Hristian: That's a good idea.

TC: Is this mostly documenting the current format? What are the major differences?

Hristian: This is a proposal for a new way to structure the changes. There are different sentence patterns, language used to express the changes. Different people saying the same thing differently.

TC: Would you want to update the existing changelog entries?

Hristian: Yes.

TC: How would we like to document templates like this? E.g., in the FLS, in the appendices? In a separate document? On the Reference side we have a developer guide for these meta items.

Tshepang: I'd put it in the "growing contributors" document. We already document things there.

Hristian: I thought of documenting this in the changelog, but that would take a lot of space up-front.

Pete: Thoughts on the contributors idea?

Pete: I'm trying to get the coding guidelines be part of the rendered document. Would that be okay with everybody to put it there too?

Hristian: Yes. We should probably have a dev guide in the FLS itself.

Tshepang: We can put it in the appendix.

Pete: How do we handle things like grammar changes? Blocks of grammar?

Hristian: There's an entry for new/changed/moved syntax. You can refer to a syntactic category (`:s:`).

Pete: What about example changes?

Tshepang: That hasn't been changed yet.

Pete: Maybe we should have a category for that too.

Tshepang: The examples are informative parts of the text, not rules.

Hristian: We'll need to a way to refer to the examples themselves. It's just a code block of a program that doesn't compile. When I joined, I suggested the code block should be compilable. But you can't directly refer to it.

Tshepang: It's part of a paragraph, so you could refer to that paragraph.

Pete: Do we see any value in noting when an example has changed?

Hristian: We should track this. There were language changes that introduced new examples in the FLS and they were good examples. And there was no way to indicate that.

Pete: Then we need a new category. Do we need a new mechanism?

Hristian: Yes, probably.

Pete: Hristian, can you open another issue?

Pete: And we can look at how we compile the code and make sure it compiles as well.

Pete: Hristian, do you want to take on the contributions.rst?

Hristian: Ok. Sounds like another issue :-)

Tshepang: You can probably do that without an issue. It's moving it inside contributing, with a new index and making it lowercase.


### Think about 1.95.0 already, look at Beta?

Pete: As part of the 2026 goal, we're trying to set a release cadence. And start looking at beta before it's released. Try to figure out if we can get work done ahead of time. Tshepang, you wanted to bring the beta release notes?

Tshepang: Eric opened the previous beta release note (or is that a tracking issue?) early. I'd like to get that done again.

Eric: What are you talking about? A zulip thread?

Tshepang: IT was a github issue that seems to take all the issues tagged with release notes. Normally the release team opens it but you seem to have done that last time?

Eric: I don't do this normally, the release team does it.

Tshepang: Let me look for the previous one.

Eric: 1.94 https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/151650

Tshepang: Oh, I thought it was you opening it.

Pete: The timing with which that's created is not always so clear. TC/Eric have you struggled with that in the past?

Eric: Our involvement comes in earlier. When a PR is open, there's a Lang FCP and even before that we're involved. So we know about these things. The release notes don't happen before it's merged and our work is done by that point.

Pete: I've seen TC has been tagging us. Is there a way of knowing which ones make it into a release? Is that a stabilization PR?

Eric: There are different ways. You can run the relnote too yourself. One of the changes here is let guards. In the short term maybe we can just ping the release team to generate this issue for 1.95 now and request that happens more early.

Pete: The beta's already been cut so we could generate it early, right?

Eric: Yes.

Pete: Whom should we talk to? Mark-Simulacrum maybe?

Eric: Mark would be a good one. But I'd just create a thread in the #t-release Zulip channel. Ask for it and explain that it would be valuable for your purposes to have it early.

Pete: I'll take that action item. I'll talk to #t-release, start the conversation, ask about creating the 1.95 release note and also having them open more early in general.

Eric: Looks like they've already started a crater triage. They're working on it, I don't know why they haven't created the release yet. There are three people rotating each releases and do different things. Boxy's doing the release notes now.

Eric: To get ahead, there are two big things now: the let guards and `cfg_select!`. I don't know whether FLS documents macros.

Hristian: We have cfgs, we'll take a look.

Pete: Tshepang do you want to look at the release notes this time? Like Hristian did last time?

Tshepang: Yes.

Pete: Anything else?

Tshepang: There are some PRs to check

Pete: Do you think Alex could take a look at some of them?

Tshepang: They look like 5-minute verifications

Pete: Alex, would you look at some of the open PRs?

Alex: Absolutely. Thank you for calling that out.


## Action items

* Hristian: Open issue about terms that inline semantics and don't have class definition (see: https://hackmd.io/0lAGS9cGR1y9NH_4pnSYaQ?edit=&stext=2036%3A197%3A1%3A1774018531%3Ak3vn7o)
* Hristian: Open an issue about tracking examples in the changelog and make them compilable
* Hristian: Open an issue to add a section on how to write a changelog (based on the Changelog language Proposal) in the contributing.rst file
* Pete: open a thread in #t-release about opening the 1.95 release notes draft issue early and ask if they can start opening these earlier in general
* Pete+Alex: look at the [open PRs](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pulls)
