---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-06-19"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-06-19
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-06-19.20meeting/with/604894841
url: https://hackmd.io/MO2NQ0RzSauNRCWXQ6XlDg
---

# 2026-06-19 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Nurzhan Saken
- Tshepang Mbambo

### Notetaker

- Nurzhan Saken

### Regrets

- Tomáš Šedovič
- TC
- Eric Huss
- Alex Celeste

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- Previous action items [minuted]

## Notes

### Prev action items

- Hristian to read Pete's suggestions on [fls#694](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694)

Hristian: Looked over Pete's suggestions, and approved them. Had just one small suggestion to split one rule into two.

- Pete to make an agenda for content team.
- Pete to add more actionable suggestions to [fls#695](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695); Tshepang to address them
- Pete to look at [fls#698](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698) and add comments; Tshepang to address Pete and Hristian's comments

### PR feedback feedback

Pete: Tshepang had feedback.

Tshepang: It's a small thing. If you give a sample, you don't have to use markup for it. In your example it was actually more readable.

Pete: If it's in code blocks, markup is okay?

Tshepang: You don't have to go all the way.

Pete: So, your POV is, it's more work to do, but if you do,  put it in code blocks.

### 1.95

Pete: I saw some adjustments from Tshepang on the [imports one](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694). One about imports. Saw Hristian's thumbs up/down. What's the vibe there?

Tshepang: 2-3 things to change. Otherwise, it's not progressing. I feel like a bottleneck. Didn't want to ping you because I wanted you to go through all of them at once instead of re-pinging.

Pete: Is 694 ready for review now?

Tshepang: If you want to look at it, that's fine. I just want to address all review comments before this.

Pete: I'm okay with you fleshing it out first. Request review from me when it's ready?

Tshepang: That's what I started doing and intend to do. 

Pete: Having an explicit request would be helpful.

Pete: What about 698, if-let guards?

Tshepang: No progress on any other things.

Pete: When you're at a better place with [693](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693), request re-review. Haven't looked at the rest of the PRs.

Tshepang: Same.

Pete: 695, you added some updates. Looks like I have some action items related to it. 698... Hristian had comments, and the ball was in Tshepang's court.

Tshepang: I have one review comment that I don't understand: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694#discussion_r3400509766. The second paragraph in that code block. I don't get how it's more accurate than the existing test.

Pete: The problem is that I also forget.

Tshepang: To me, it adds extra text but keeps the meaning.

Pete: I feel like I came up with an example where this is necessary, but I don't remember the details.

Hristian: I think it's ?? allows for the case where you have a braced path.

Tshepang: Is that or the previous one allows?

Hristian: The first paragraph is about not trying to import the prelude.

Tshepang: I'm interested in the second paragraph.

(..)

Pete: The FLS and the Reference are different. The feedback from TC and Eric is that there are unintentional gaps in the FLS, and I don't know if this might fall into that category where in the past we said that this was sufficient. But maybe the methodology is different. With Reference, it's often more bottom-up, while the FLS is more top-down.

Tshepang: What's bottom-up vs top-down?

Pete: In my view, the FLS was built to review the things existing in the language and describing them. 

Tshepang: The Reference is called the manual sometimes?

Nurzhan: Descriptive (FLS) vs. prescriptive (Reference)?

Tshepang: In this case, it's not an important distinction. If you describe how a thing works, it's likely to stay true, even though technically it could change. You usually can rely on it long-term. 

Pete: There are some differences, but the two originated for different purposes. Can we put a pin in that one? I need to look more at the Reference.

Tshepang: That's fine. It's not an objection, I just want to understand the difference. A lot of the text is informal, and this one seems much more rigorous in comparison.

Pete: Do we want to close this discussion or do you want me to think about it?

Tshepang: Yes. I just wanted to do some thinking. 

### 1.96

Pete: 1.96 does exist, but I haven't done much with it. Hristian, you've said that it doesn't have much.

Hristian: The changelog has compiler fixes without visible lang features. It also added support for an exotic target.

Pete: Love that changelog. Looks like there's nothing for us to do.

Hristian: I've looked at the PRs in detail, and the Reference as well. Couldn't find anything for us.

Pete: Lovely. Thank you for that.

## Action items

- Pete: #695 (add actionable suggestions), #698 (add comments)
- Tshepang: #693, #694 (should prepare them for re-review)
- Hristian: nothing! \o/