---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-04-24"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-04-24
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-04-24.20meeting/with/590713959
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/HkrEpJtTbg
---

# 2026-04-24 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Tshepang Mbambo
- Tomas Sedovic
- TC

Notes: Tomas

### Regrets

- Eric Huss
- Nurzhan Saken
- Alex Celeste

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- 1.95.0 updates [minuted]
- t-release reach out [minuted]
- Progress towards generated glossary! [minuted]
- Developer's guide [minuted]

### Walk-in topics

#### Room at the Rust All-Hands?

Pete [asked](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/399173-t-spec/topic/t-spec.20room.2Fslot.20at.20the.20All-Hands.3F/with/586033295) about this, haven't seen movement on it.

Pete: If it's Tshepang, Pete, Alex Celeste of t-fls at the All-Hands, should we have a room?

Pete: Hristian won't be at the all hands.

Tshepang: It'd be good to have an agenda for that.

Pete: It could serve 2 purposes: announce the T-FLS that exists, what we do, invite people to talk to us about it. And second: gather interest, let them know about the document, ask if they're interested. I don't think we'll make technical decisions since not everyone will be there. But we could do an informational session.

Hristian: Sounds good to me.

Tshepang: How long do you imagine getting the room for?

Pete: An hour tops?

Tshepang: Getting a room for half a day might be hard, but an hour should be okay. We could even have an FLS meeting at the same time.

Pete: Yes.

Tomas: Open an issue on a repo (but which?). I'll figure it out and let you know.

(post meeting edit: here's the call for All Hands session proposals: [all-hands-2026>Sessions](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/532959-all-hands-2026/topic/Sessions/with/583996836), you open a GH issue following this template: https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/issues)

### 1.95.0 updates

Stubbed changelog entries merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/692

First 1.95.0 entry marked as not relevant for FLS merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/697/changes

Remaining PRs:
- document Closure capture precision: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698
- document preservation of padding in operations on pointers: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695
- document missing import restrictions: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694
- document if let guards: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693

Tshepang: We're about to release Ferrocene next month which is why I picked the issues.

Pete: You work for a company that uses the FLS so there's a tension to get this done early but Hristian and I are throwing comments at you. Do you see any issues with that?

Tshepang: Our schedule shouldn't be the schedule of the FLS team. Don't hold back.

Pete: I appreciate that. That's my though process: if there might be any concerns around the timelines or the level of feedback, it'd be good to know.

Tshepang: I'm the one who's grateful. We'd be doing this internally otherwise.

Pete: Are there any high(er) priority PRs you want to take a look at?

Tshepang: The maintenance ones are lower priorities. The updates are higher priority. I've already spent too much time on the Glossary one this week but I also didn't want to hold you back.

Pete: Are there certain PRs you feel we should prioritise?

Tshepang: We'll do it async. Nothing to prioritise.

Pete: We'll talk on GitHub but feel free to also start threads on Zulip.


### FLS fixes / amendments

not all functions implement Fn traits: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/696

separate structure demo from parent chapter: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/699

Pete: I haven't reviewed them yet. Can you say a little about how they were discovered etc.? Was this something you were reviwewing?

Tshepang: for https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/699 is a response to a review you made on the Glossary PR. This is on the intro chapter. The way the info is present, it's not clear whether it's a normal content rather than a demo. You thoght that was a normal content. So I tried to make that clearer.

Tshepang: I was looking at the FLS, saw some mistakes and this is a fix. It's not related to 1.95. I don't know if this is an error or Rust changed. Maybe FLS was always wrong about this. I haven't checked that yet. I want to update the changelog to the appropriate version.

Hristian: I think the Fn traits fix is relatively new (2025-08-20). I remember writing this and it would have jumped up.

Tshepang: Okay, I'll look at that.


### t-release reach out

Zulip topic: [t-fls would like to help you (and help ourselves) with notes](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/241545-t-release/topic/t-fls.20would.20like.20to.20help.20you.20.28and.20help.20ourselves.29.20with.20notes/with/583878392)

@tshepang - triagebot investigation?

Pete: I didn't see your response, but I wanted to pivot that discussion to make everyone feel okay about us showing up. I'd imagine you are tied up with the 1.95 FLS release. And you didn't have time to look at the triagebot work yet?

Tshepang: That's correct.

Pete: Thanks for that.

### Progress towards generated glossary!

Tracking issue: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/680

Latest PR is ensure all terms in glossary also exist in main text: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/689

Pete: Tshepang you've submitted a review but you haven't looked at it yet?

Tshepang: I did a bit of a review, I'll take a look at it later. Thanks for already spotting problems.

Pete: So you took a partial review, found some things and that led to that PR? And you'll look at the rest at some point?

Tshepang: Yes.

Pete: Thank you for this.

Tshepang: I found problems just going through the process so this is improving the world slightly.

## Linking

Tshepang: I feel FLS overlinks. Let's say you have a paragraph where we link to a term. Why do we link to the term already when it's linked previously in the same paragraph?

Hristian: The idea is that you can pick a single sentence and you should be able to pick everything in the sentence by following the links. You make a good point of why linking the same term in one sentence twice. The reason is consistency I think.

Tshepang: How does this work in the [Ada Reference manual](https://www.ada-auth.org/standards/22rm/html/rm-ttl.html)?

Hristian: You have an index there which lists all occurrences of that term in the same manual.

Tshepang: I should look at it more closely.

Pete: This is where you have the same terms even in the same sentence? Are you referring to things like :dt: etc.?

Tshepang: It's about the :t:

Pete: It's pretty natural behaviour (at least for me) when you're reading something, you're thinking the links might lead to different places?

Tshepang: I wasn't even thinking about that. It was more thinking "it's already linked it, you don't need to do it again"

Hristian: It's basically the Wikipedia approach to linking, right? The first time you see something, it's linked but subsequently you don't. Which means you end up hunting for the first occurrence. But if that's in the same sentence maybe that's not necessary.

Tshepang: I can document this in the dev guide.

Pete: If we adopt this rule, it would be good to have a checker to verify that. I can see both paths: do nothing (encode that every time you mention a term you link it) or set up some rule and then enforce it.

Hristian: If you see a link, you know there's semantics behind the term. It's not just plain English. I think that's a necessary distinction.

Tshepang: So when you're talking about a domain term that's also just an English word, you'd link one and not the other in the same paragraph.

Pete: Let's continue this on Zulip.

## Action items

* xx
