---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-04-03"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-04-03
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-04-03.20-.20meeting/with/583381183
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/rkpOSYhibx
---

# 2026-04-03 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Tshepang Mbambo
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Nurzhan Saken
- Eric Huss
- Mark Rousskov
- TC

### Regrets

- Tomas Sedovic
- Alex Celeste

## Agenda

- t-release + Beta release notes follow-up [minuted]
- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- Progress towards generated glossary! [minuted]
- Developer's guide [minuted]

### t-release + Beta release notes follow-up

Pete: The FLS team has been looking at the stable release rustc notes, building a changelog of what's applicable to the FLS. In 2026, the challenge we set for ourselves is, can we look earlier to see what release notes are available to prepare for the next one? What we've committed to is, for every stable rustc release and before N+1 release we'll have the FLS updated. With 1.94 we finished earlier. I went to a t-release meeting, where Mark shared the process. Boxy said, maybe the FLS could get more involved in the process of generating the release notes. I said ok, let's get involved and see what this looks like. When I say "us", I don't want to force everyoen to participate -- it's mostly my initiative. Mark, can you talk more about the release process?

Mark: https://forge.rust-lang.org/release/release-notes.html is the process for context. https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/241545-t-release/topic/1.2E95.2E0.20relnotes/with/583231466 is the thread for 1.95 Boxy put together.

Mark: High-level, there's nothing private about the process. It could be done by anyone in principle, and we do want help (it's not happening much in reality).

Pete: Is there anyone else from the FLS side who wants to get involved? I want to get involved more if I can.

Tshepang: Happy to get involved where I can.

Pete: Previously, we agreed that I'd make a t-release topic asking for help with getting involved. I'll do that next.

Mark: That makes sense. On t-release, we rotate through Josh Stone, Boxy, and me. The process is the same. The release notes tracking issues are filed as things get merged.

Pete: Sounds good. Mark, thanks for coming here. Does anyone have questions for Mark?

Tshepang: How disruptive would it be to have the release notes issue available when the beta cutoff happens? Is there anything additional that needs to be done before we cut it?

Mark: Depends on what you mean by issue existing. The work between beta-cutoff and the issue getting filed is items getting categorized. The list is mostly empty before that categorization. High-level, the goal is getting to a point where the issue automatically gets cut and categorized. We haven't automated that yet because running the tooling isn't hard enough to warrant the work. (Describes running the tooling.) Talk to us if you need help with that.

Tshepang: Can anyone generate the issue or only t-release members?

Mark: Anyone can do it.

Tshepang: Let's say I do it in 2 weeks time. Would that be disruptive?

Mark: If you run the tool, you'll get local output saying these issues don't have categories. If you went through these issues and added descriptions, added PR titles, that's totally useful. The tracking issues ask for that already. Cutting the release notes issue, you don't have to do it, but I'd be happy to grow the pool of people doing it. Generally, you'd be disruptive if you closed issues or broke people's text.

Tshepang: I'm trying to see the sequence of actions/events. Some things are labeled enough so we don't have to create the release notes issue?

Mark: That's the state today. We want the process to eventually be, e.g. t-lang says "we should FCP merge this", we update the issue with what we want the release notes to say. Today, t-release does this work. In principle, I'd like the teams to do it because they understand the stabilized features better.

TC: From the lang side, we'd been consistently happy with how you and the others on the release team have written the release notes and blog post. I'm not sure we could do a better job.

Mark: Maybe we should do a worse job :)

Pete: In 2027, you should do a Project Goal to worsen how you do things :)

(No other questions.)

Pete: Thank you for meeting with us, Mark. Let's continue on Zulip.

### Walk-in topics

Pete: Any topics anyone wants addressed?

(None.)

### Progress towards generated glossary!

Pete: Tshepang, your PR was merged. How are things?

[Tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/680)

Tshepang: Glossary automation is almost there. I found a bunch of terms that aren't referenced in the main text, and I propose we just delete them. Otherwise, it's going OK.

Pete: When I looked through the glossary in the past, there was a wide array of terms there. To me, there are folks who use the FLS for business, so I'd like to not be too disruptive. If we could understand which terms are truly needed or not, which ones might be disruptive if removed. Tshepang, you seem uniquely suited to check this thanks to your employer. Do you think it makes sense?

Tshepang: I can check, but to me it's not a thing that should limit us. I believe we should do things that make sense to *us*. There can always be feedback later. We shouldn't worry about that. Let's make FLS make sense to us instead of worry that somebody might ...

Pete: I can see the reason for putting at least C there (e.g. FFI, representation). I can see the argument for removing it, but also maybe it should be there because of questions like what do we mean by C ABI, etc? If we're wildly successful, we may (not?) be able to ask each FLS user. Maybe we could at least post a notice to the users, say that these things are going away?

Tshepang: 1) If we want to have the C example, we can squeeze it in the main text. If we're talking about C FFI, we can have that term. 2) Those terms (about 30 of them), I don't know if they're important enough to warrant a notice. It's better to ask for forgiveness than permission.

Pete: I don't think it's an issue to do that. We're early enough as a team to try this. For these 30 or so terms, do you want to discuss this later on Zulip? "10 of these don't belong, ..."

Tshepang: The discussion can happen under the PR removing them.

Pete: Makes sense, even better to review line by line.

Tshepang: What's the plans regarding the glossary of the Reference, directed at the Reference maintainers?

TC: There are things we should add to it.  Of course, when going to add something there, one often realizes that the real problem is that something is needed elsewhere.  It'll probably never be as large as the FLS glossary — it doesn't need to be for the Reference.

Eric: I'm not happy with the Reference Glossary, but I don't have specific short-term plans. I don't know what I would change.

TC: Agreed on that too.

Tshepang: Thank you.

### Developer's guide

Pete: I've reviewed your (Hristian) [PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/686) right before the meeting started. One thing that came up was...

Hristian: The only outstanding discussion is on how to indicate a no-change because of some reason? So far we've been using "No change: REASON", and Tshepang asked "", and I could go any way. The only reason for keeping it is for searching for ... so I don't see the use for it.

Pete: My reading of it was more like "Let's provide more examples on explaining why there wasn't any change"

Hristian: I think this shouldn't have fixed language because of all the different cases. Tshepang suggested giving examples as to what the text should feel like, which I like.

Pete: Does it come down to, e.g., listing some examples and inviting people to read the changelog, "you're welcome to come up with whatever unique reason that might fit with your circumstances"?

Hristian, Tshepang: Makes sense.

Pete: Hristian, you can make that update, and Tshepang or I will approve/merge it.

Hristian: And then I can go update the changelog.

Tshepang: Do we care about the old entries? Do we want that consistency or do we just want to do this going forward?

Pete: I could go either way. My argument for doing it is... a story I've heard twice this week... making things copy-paste resistant. From that POV, updating the changelog could be better for copy-pasting.

Hristian: In addition to that, scanning the changelog for inspiration but then not having it in the "good" form might be bad.

Pete: On the other hand, it takes valuable time from Hristian. If you're willing to, that'd be fantastic.

## Action items

* Pete: open Zulip thread on t-release process (how we can help out further upstream FLS)
* Tshepang: open PR on auditing glossary entries
* Hristian: update PR, merge it
* Tshepang: open 1.95 changelog section using the currently open issue
