---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-06-05"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-06-05
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-06-05.20meeting/with/600688250
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/BkPvE8xZMe
---

# 2026-06-05 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Tomáš Šedovič
- TC
- Eric Huss

### Regrets

- Alex Celeste
- Nurzhan Saken
- Tshepang Mbambo

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- 1.95.0 updates [minuted]
- 1.96.0 updates [minuted]
- Progress towards generated glossary! [minuted]
- Developer's guide [minuted]

### Walk-in topics

Pete: This week was busy, travelling to the office. I'll try to put some time in this afternoon.

### Action items from last time

* Tshepang to look at https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693 and address the remaining proposed changes
    * Pete: let's follow up offline
* Hristian and/or Pete to look at https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694 (there are new changes made by Tshepang there)
    * Hristian: I looked at this. I met with Tshepang. We don't quite understand how renaming works in terms of semantic rules. Are they introducing names into visibility? Is the last segment or the name itself being renamed?
* Hristian and/or Pete to look at the 1.96 changelog and identify the heavy-hitting changes
    * Hristian: I haven't looked at it. I think it's better to finish 1.95 and then look at the heavy-hitting changes. I brought up the potential topic for FLS releases so we have a self-contained release for a particular version of Rust. And I think that's becoming a reasonable use case for that.

### Renaming

Tshepang's wording:

> When a :t:`path segment` expressed as :t:`keyword` ``super`` is used to import a parent :t:`module`, the :t:`path segment` shall be subject to a :t:`renaming`.

(the **path segment** shall be ...)

Hristian's wording:

> When a :t:simple path segment expressed as :t:keyword super is used to import a parent :t:module, the :t:simple import shall be subject to a :t:renaming.

(the **simple import** shall be ...)

```
use aaa::super as bbb;
```

Hristian: What is `bbb` renaming?

TC: I'm looking at the comparable Reference section. We've been adjusting the rules to this lately.

Hristian: Sounds like the path is bound to a local name. You ran rebind the name using a new local name using the `as` syntax. In my mental model, the path is subject to path resolution, you find the path it resolves to, that creates a new local binding and if you then use `as` it creates a new bind to that name.

TC: Does the FLS deal with the brace syntax?

Hristian: Yes and I think we have a bug in the syntax:

```
use aaa::{bbb as ccc};
```

[NestingImport](https://rust-lang.github.io/fls/entities-and-resolution.html#use-imports)

Hristian: May have been a false alarm.

TC: The difference between `self` within braces and outside is not as simple and we've been making changes to make this more consistent.

Hristian: The examples from the Reference:

```
use {self as this_module};
use self as this_module2;
use self::{self as this_module3};

use super as parent;
use super::{self as parent2};
use self::super as parent3;
use super::super as grandparent;
use super::super::{self as grandparent2};
```

TC: Looking at the Reference, the way I'd frame it is as follows:

When you have a use import of path such as `use a::b::c`, we'd say that `c` is the imported entity.  What's happening is that we're creating a new item-like name entity in this scope.  E.g., if `c` is `fn c() {}`, we do something that's spiritually similar to entering the item directly in this scope.  If you use `as`, then you're renaming that imported entity, i.e., `c`, to something else.  For a `self` import, the question to answer for what is being renamed is what `self` would have imported in the first place.  As the Reference says, `self` creates a binding of the parent entity.  This is why there are restrictions, e.g., on what the path segment preceding `self` must resolve to.

> When a :t:`path segment` expressed as :t:`keyword` ``crate`` or :t:`keyword` ``$crate`` is used to import the current :t:`crate`, the :t:`path segment` shall be subject to a :t:`renaming`.

Hristian: Would you say the path segment sohuld be subjected to renaming?

TC: I'd say the imported entity.

Pete: Is that an explicit term in the Reference?

TC: It may be a bit fuzzy. I'd need to do an investigation before nailing it down.

Hristian: We define the "entity" in the FLS.

> An entity is a construct that can be referred to within program text, usually via a field access expression or a path.

TC: Eric, what do you think?

Eric: If you're asking about using the term "entity", we spent a large amount of time coming down to that.

TC: What Eric said.  It's "entity".

Pete: Does this answer the question sufficiently that you can advise Tshepang?

Hristian: Yes.

### 1.95.0 updates

Stubbed changelog entries merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/692

First 1.95.0 entry marked as not relevant for FLS merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/697/changes

Remaining PRs:
- document Closure capture precision: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698
- document preservation of padding in operations on pointers: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695
- document missing import restrictions: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694
- document if let guards: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693

Pete: We're making progress. Nothing extra to call out beyond what we talked about.

### 1.96.0 updates

Pete: Hristian will take a look at the changelog.

### Progress towards generated glossary!

Tracking issue: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/680

Latest PR is ensure all terms in glossary also exist in main text: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/689

Pete: Same as the other items. We're working hard to do what we agreed to in the 2026 cycle for your project goal. That's where our energy and focus is.

## Action items

* Pete to add more actionable suggestions to https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695 and Tshepang to address them
* Pete to look at https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698 and add comments; Tshepang to address Pete and Hristian's comments
* Pete to resume banging the "we need contributors" drum at the Safety Critical Rust Consortium
* Pete to work with the Content team about creating updates that might excite and bring in outside contributors
* Hristian to look at the 1.96 changelog and identify the heavy-hitting changes
