---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-07-03"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-07-03
discussion: 
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/SktudEBmGg
---

# 2026-07-03 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Nurzhan Saken
- Hristian Kirtchev
- TC
- Tshepang Mbambo

### Regrets

- Alex Celeste
- Tomáš Šedovič
- Eric Huss

### Notetaker

- xx

## Agenda

- Previous action items [minuted]
- 1.95.0 [minuted]

## Notes

### Housekeeping

Pete: I'll be in Japan next meeting; could someone draft that agenda and run that meeting?

(Tshepang volunteered.)

### Prev action items

#### Hristian: Review 1.96.1, and prepare a PR

Pete: I saw a PR go up.

Hristian: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/708

Pete: How did it look?

Hristian: 2 changes to cargo, 1 fix to MIR.

#### Hristian: Add something to the dev guide about merging PRs in chronological order, so that (future) releases can be tagged.

Hristian: This also happened. Added two sentences. The PR got merged.

### 1.95.0

#### document preservation of padding in operations on pointers: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695

Pete: I think this has been superceded by https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/707, right? Haven't looked at that. Hristian, can you help me get oriented?

Hristian: I added a section on provenance of values... We need a collective term for raw pointers and references... The open issue is explaining what a valid pointer is. I found a term on ?? that I took from one of the Reference PRs. But it sounds handwavy. I may have misunderstood the original PR.

#### document Closure capture precision: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698

Pete: Was this the one I didn't have the context for at the time?

Tshepang: It's waiting on you.

#### document missing import restrictions: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694

Pete: I think I see what Tshepang means about there being a need for more fundamental changes. I've been investigating what these look like. Hope to share more early next week.

#### document if let guards: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693

Pete: I saw a comment from Tshepang. I realize they're quite substantive, therefore I'm open to taking this over. Need to refresh my context. I can take over and try to come up with something next week.

Tshepang: ...

Pete: In the review I linked to a branch with the changes I suggested. Tshepang suggested opening that as a PR. I'll look at it and see if I can do so or rework it. Tshepang, how did you feel about the contents?

Tshepang: Mostly good. I like the mini gaps you found that I missed. There are good suggestions from Hristian (too verbose, some syntax productions were indirect). Otherwise, I like the suggestions. With some of the things like drop rules I didn't feel confident enough to own the changes.

Pete: I'll take over and either open the existing PR or rework it along the lines of Hristian's and Tshepang's suggestions they thought of (see above).

### Focus on updating FLS and not fixing bugs

Tshepang: When we do updates, we should focus on the changes themselves instead of fixing a bunch of bugs in the FLS (instead, opening issues is OK).

Pete: I agree. Maybe there should be a recommendation at most, and opening issues for more things to fix. I'm a bit concerned about putting out a product which has bugs in it, and then not getting them fixed. Not opposed to keeping PRs focused. Not comfortable with cutting the release before finding the bugs.

Hristian: Makes sense. Products also have "known problems".

Tshepang: ?? will still delay the release. We also have many bugs in the FLS. We already don't have a perfect product. The base level for me is "do not regress". We need to make sure things are updated without introducing new bugs. And every time we release, we might commit to fixing a small number of existing bugs.

Pete: I hear you. There are already safety-qualified versions of Rust that use buggy versions of the FLS. I've sort of been blind to the number of issues because I haven't interacted with them personally. They're probably most or all legitimate, and there's a category of bugs we find as a team... I don't have a great idea of how this is evaluated, e.g., by auditors. My guess is that "known bugs" will get more scrutiny (than GitHub issues). More honest acknowledgement might lead to real-world consequences for companies.

Tshepang: I know that ? only looks at changelogs.

Hristian: Example with ?? manual. It definitely has bugs. They don't advertise the bugs. There are publicly-available and discussed bug reports in the form of Ada issues. When we certify a runtime, there's no problem because ??. 

Pete: There's no advertising of bugs in the Ada manual?

Hristian: No. There's a version of the reference manual that shows reasoning behind some of the rules, and links to the relevant discussions. That's about it. I don't think we can do better than the Reference manual, which has bugs itself.

Pete: Then I will propose this: we'll mark existing issues with a "speculative" tag so that we investigate them. The issues opened through updating the FLS, need to be a separate category because we have fresh context there. Basically, a two-tier system. Given what Hristian said about Ada manual, we might want to avoid advertising the bugs to not put anyone under fire. Also proposing to allow FLS shipping even with bugs in it.

Hristian: Also pointing out that the bugs are usually discovered by compiler developers.

## Action items

- Pete: take over #693 and look at #698
- Hristian: ask TC to explain what the whole "bytes being part of the same group."