---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-06-12"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-06-12
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-06-12.20meeting/with/602466025
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/SyBgh8tZfe
---

# 2026-06-12 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Eric Huss
- Nurzhan Saken
- TC
- Tshepang Mbambo

### Regrets

- Tomáš Šedovič
- Alex Celeste

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- Previous action items [minuted]

### Walk-in topics

#### "Vibe check"

Pete: I'm happy that Hristian reported that 1.96 looked a bit thinner than usual. How does everyone feel about 1.95?

Hristian: We still have work to do.

Tshepang: Yes.

Pete: I like the work. It's interesting, and I always learn new things. I find time for it as I go, but not as much as I'd like.

Hristian: I'm doing mind-numbing certification work, and FLS stuff is way more interesting compared to that. Waiting for the next steps in the FLS work.

Tshepang: I can give you some work :-) if you look at the issues, I promise you'll find more stuff.

Tshepang: I haven't had much time in the last 3 weeks after the All Hands. I should have more time now. I moved again, but the move is done.

Pete: The vibes are still good.

#### What Pete accidentally did this week instead: add more actionable suggestions to [fls#694](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694)

Pete: Despite there being action items for me from last week, I accidentally did something else. On 694, I started digging into that... Largely agree with Hristian there, but there are things like older languages... If you'd like to take a look, we can follow-up async.

(Head nods from Hristian and Tshepang.)

Hristian: I saw the posted changes and their size and decided not to read them. Will do that at the start of next week.

### Previous action items

#### Pete to add more actionable suggestions to [fls#695](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695); Tshepang to address them

(Nothing.)

#### Pete to look at [fls#698](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698) and add comments; Tshepang to address Pete and Hristian's comments

(Nothing.)

#### Pete to resume banging the "we need contributors" drum at the Safety Critical Rust Consortium

Pete: Need to set up a Zulip channel to use as a honeypot over on the #safety-critical-consortium stream. Let's see if that generates interest.

#### Pete to work with the Content team about creating updates that might excite and bring in outside contributors

Pete: I'm the content team lead along with TC, and we didn't discuss this.

Hristian: What's the content team?

Pete: It feels spiritually correct to call it the public relations arm of Rust. TC, what do you think? We could take this into next content team meeting.

TC: Absolutely. No idea what this is about :)

Pete: Love that we're on the same page.

Pete: We wanted to make some content to attract contributors.

TC: There are companies doing safety-critical work, and there's a lot of opportunities to make content.

#### Hristian to look at the 1.96 changelog and identify the heavy-hitting changes

Hristian: The 1.96.0 changelog contains predominantly compiler fixes without visible language changes, and support for new exotic targets.

Hristian: We got lucky.

## Action items

- Hristian to read Pete's suggestions on [fls#694](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694)
- Pete to make an agenda for content team.
- Pete to add more actionable suggestions to [fls#695](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695); Tshepang to address them
- Pete to look at [fls#698](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698) and add comments; Tshepang to address Pete and Hristian's comments