---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-02-20"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-02-20
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-02-06.20meeting/with/572250583
url: https://hackmd.io/t0L-QwG8T5KyYJABQPF-VQ
---

# 2026-02-20 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Eric Huss
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Pete LeVasseur
- Tshepang Mbambo
- Nurzhan Saken
- Tomas Sedovic
- TC
- Alex Celeste
- Ana Hobden

### Regrets

- xx

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- Discussion with Ana about what an assessor needs for FLS

## Walk-in topics

(nothing came up)

## Expectations with including temporary items in the glossary

Tshepang: The glossary contains all the defs (dts). The idea is to not have `:dt`s in the glossary, only the main text. My approach is to do that gradually. You make sure the main text has all the content of the glossary, and later generate the glossary from the main text -- instead of Pete's appraoch where we have both glossary definitions in the main text, and later remove from the main text and generate the glossary from that.

TC: So the idea is that all the definitions appearing in the main text would be rendered in the main text (we'd have all the main ideas in the glossary), and eventually we'd delete the glossary.. Are there `:dt` items now in the main text?

Tshepang: It's inconsistent. There are dts and normal terms

TC: Do the dt items elsewhere get propagated to the glossary?

Tshepang: .. There are .. definitions in the glossary but not the other way around

TC: Do we have a directive that say items go into the glossary?

Tshepang: We don't

Tshepang: The idea is to not have the discrepancy, to not have to remember to do the duplication manually. We have the same definitions, maybe with small deviations because sometimes we forget to update both in sync. We'd like to get rid of this need.

TC: Do you think Pete's branch is close to where we'd end up? Other than that the items in the chapters aren't marked as `:dt`s What are the differences?
 
Tshepang: Maybe we're halfway there. We need to decide .. and use that as the canonical definition in the main text. So we need to agree to do this and generate them from the main text. 

Tshepang: We'll remove the intermediary directive which will become unnecessary.

TC: Do we need to do anything in the Python code to propagate the definitions, or is it built-in?

Tshepang: I don't know that part of code to see if this can be done there now. It is something we'd need to script which is what Pete did. My proposal is posted [here](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/656#issuecomment-3876000720).

TC: Explain the "ensure `:dt` entries are in main text and that there are none in glossary"

Tshepang: Whenever you click a term, you want it to take you to its definition in the main text.

TC: Would we still have `:dt`s in the glossary? ..

Tshepang: Yes.

TC: There are nearly 800 glossary entries.

Tshepang: It can be scripted, so it's okay.

TC: This sounds like a good plan. Even in doing this, why wouldn't we first do something similar to Pete's idea, since we could verify the transformation and get the same output? Since the text is in the chapter and you could work put that .. 

Tshepang: It doesn't sound easier because how big the change becomes  if you take the fully automated route immediately. If we take this approach, there would be a shortcut in reviewing the change. If we have the text duplicated, we'd have to compare them, the change/diff would be huge.

It's a thing of looking at the diff size. The other issue is having intermediate .. that oculd go directly to .. without polluting the history.

TC: Do you want to close this [656 PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/656)?

Tshepang: Yes.

TC: I'll let Pete close it. What's the next step?

Tshepang: ATM I'm looking at getting rid of glossary entry IDs. Then I'll proceed through the steps listed in the comment. .. do we need those IDs, should we preserve them? This is a normative document, it doesn't have stable references

TC: Good luck. This is an enormous task. Thank you for volunteering to do this!

Tshepang: Reviews will help verify this approach.

## Discussion with Ana Hobden about what the assessor needs for FLS

Tshepang:

Ana: I told Tshepang that the assesor hasn't asked me a question in years. He asked to do a spot check and then whether you have tests for this secitons? What are they? .. and people involved in the initial specification, Hristian and Tshepang have been doing a great job. The assessor checks the changelog, .. it's important that the changelog is comprehensive. Any large refactors would be annoying.  They'd need to verify

TC: So the assessor looks through the changelog and then looks at the paragraphs that have been added or changed.

Ana: to recertify they're looking at a diff (changelog), because a changelog is good and comprehensive. 

TC: What's he looking for in the changelog? That it's comprehensive, but what does he actually verify in terms of the changes?

Ana: The important thing is that we have the spec, it covers the things relevant to our qualiication. The exact format is less important than the fact of it covering .. and consistent tone and styling, so the user isn't getting confused.

TC: Interesting, so the assessor is looking at it somewhat editorially.

Ana: The thing to keep in mind that assessors aren't programmers. They're formal people looking from the lens of if they can understand the language from a formal POV. They're not thinking about syntax. When I showed an assessor some Rust he ofund it interesting because Rust looks very formal. He's only looking at specification and verification. He doesn't relaly ask questions about the spec.

TC: Interesting. Sounds like doing things right: send them a changelog, and he doesn't ask questions.

Ana: The specification is something I don't worry about on requalification

TC: What does comparatively worry you or take time?

Ana: When we're recertifying the core library, that was a lot of unknown. how do we do that, what does it look like? how do we make sure customers understand? Assessor looks at docs through the POV of "I'm a user who might not be a Rust expert, how do I use this safely and within the constrating of safety-critical qualification?" For example in Ferrocene, the nightly features are not allowed so he doesn't look at those. A lot of it is making sure that we're producing a consistent story about how to use the thing safely, the constraints we provide.

TC: The traceability matrix, what does he look at there?

Ana: He will ask about a paragraph in the spec, asks to add a test that demonstrates it. So there we sent thim the traceability matrix so he can see. 

https://public-docs.ferrocene.dev/main/qualification/traceability-matrix.html

Ana: Each section of the FLS has a pointer, you can scroll down and find the tests there. We annotated sections in the FLS. That was a lot of effort. We don't want to do this again.

From my POV, if you don't mess with annotations and don't annoy the assessor by moving around things, they will not be upset about incremental additions. Slow changes are better because it will be easier for him to review. assessor tends to be busy. It may take months to get feedback, and they might request to change things. Less burden on the assessor is better for your relationship with them.

TC: Pete has talked to us about the different levels of qualifications (ASIL A, B, C, D, etc.). What level of qualification are we talking here?

Ana: We qualify FLS for ISO 26262, the lowest-level one, fitting for  ISO .. for robotics suitable to work with humans. I.. the medical qualification. We've taken the FLS to the lowest level so that you could use it in nuclear reactors.

Ana: This is specifically for the qualification of the compiler. We qualify:
  
> Phases and activities that describe the qualification of the Ferrocene toolchain with the TCL 3/ASIL D level in accordance with ISO 26262 standard, the class T3 in accordance with the IEC 61508 standard, and in accordance with the IEC 62304 standard.

Ana: We pick that qualified compiler and then we certify the core libraries for  ISO 26262 and ASIL B

Ana: We're currently blocked on certifying the lower-level due to lack of MC/DC coverage tooling. The Rust community is working on these, and we're trying to help.

TC: So you're working on lower levels of qualifications, and that involves MCDC.

Ana: We want you to be able to run Rust in nuclear reactors. It's a long-running effort.

TC: What else is needed? What's the path to higher qualifications?

Ana: The biggest blocker is MC/DC. ASIL C requires branch coverage. But it's incomplete and unstable. If we finish that, we could pursue higher qualification. For ASIL B you require MC/DC There are a couple methods of doing that: tooling from the compiler; an army of interns but it's impractical because we try to track upstream Rust within a couple of days. Having interns .. would be impractical.

TC: I noticed youre calling the more stringent qualifications "lower" level.

Ana: I think the higher-level things are for things like door controller and the lower-level are for critical things.

TC: Any questions? Eric?

Eric: I've talked to Emily .. and got most of the information from her.

TC: Let's talk about the reference. The FLS and the reference could be closer together. What are the migration / consolidation question which we could ask? How would this affect you?

Eric: Good question. I don't know how to structure this or what the requirements would be.

Ana: I haven't been part of the prev discussions, but as I mentioned, large refactros of the FLS would make assessors mad. From practicality standpoint, merging them would cause assessors to charge us more money and take more time. I believe the docs may serve different purposes.

TC: Could you perhaps elaborate?

Ana: I'm not sure how much I should say authoritatively as the tech lead of Ferrocene. I don't want to tell the Rust project what they should or shouldn't do. I believe in the decision-making power of the team. .. would be nice because it would always be up to date. FLS tends to be behind the reference. I imagine some in the community would be unhappy with .. experimental feature.

TC: And that's what you mean by serving two different purposes?

Ana: I think explaining it to you would be very entertaining. But I'm not going to tell you if you should or shouldn't merge them.

TC: Understand the reservedness.

Ana: I haven't thought about it much because it belongs to the Rust project. .. doesn't make me happy but I can deal with that.

Hristian: I'd like to supplement Ana's reply. I've been about the standard on the side. This is ISO 26262 part 8. Specifying safety requirements. The table shows how formal the language needs to be depending on the ASIL level.

Depending on ASIL level the more the safety level increases, the more formal it needs to be. "Semi-formal notation formulates requirements using natural languange that is suipplemented by mathematical or graphical elements such as equation, graphs, diagram, flow charts, timing diagrams etc." For lower-level safety requirement we need more controlled language.

"Controlled language" is basically what the FLS provides. The reference has a "tutpral" flavor to it. The FLS tries to be more formal.

Ana: I think the reference would be suitable for ASIL A/B informal text. For the FLS there's a certain level of rigor that's required.

TC: Could you share this document?

Ana: No, you can't.

Hristian: It's an internal, proprietary document (ISO 26262). It's not one but 12 documents.

TC: When you say "controlled vocabulary", you're referring to the degree to which the FLS is glossary-focused and how it centers itself around the glossary?

Hristian: I think controlled vocabulary is more about the way we organize and express the information. It's a bit more formal than what the reference does.

TC: That's what I'm poking at. Both docs are informal from a language point of view in the sense that neither rigorously define various semantics. What is it that trips this sense of formalness for the assessor?

Hristian: We organize the content into syntactic portion, static/dynamic semantics... Every paragraph is tracked, which is importnat for traceability. So you can have the semantics tested. This is what assessors care for - that you've tested what you promised.

TC: Is it the regularity of the document, in a regular language sense? That it reuses certain patterns? We might say it's formulaic?

Hristian: Yes. That contributes.

TC: Makes sense.

Hristian: It clearly defines the terms, describes the semantics rigorously. This also contributes to the feel.

TC: That makes sense. Other questions, thoughts?

Tshepang: The dynamic semantics sections of FLS, are they equivalent to opsem (operational semantics of the language), or is opsem something else?

TC: That's correct. Opsem would be the dynamic semantics.

Tsepang: I had the sense that the reference talks about static and dynamic semantics. The Reference does separate those semantics, but it doesn't separate them as cleanly as the FLS. Is that right?

Tshepang: I have the idea that the Reference talks about dynamic semantics in places and doesn't separate the static and the dynamic ones.

TC: Some chapters talk more about one or the other. Both documents mostly focus on static semantics. The dynamic semantics are underdocumented in both. E.g., the best coverage is on the grammar accepted by the language; that's part of the static semantics.

TC: Huge thanks to Ana for joining us and giving us this background. It's not as boring as you thought; good to talk through this. Thanks to Tshepang for his work on the glossary. Thanks to Tomas and Nurzhan for taking the notes. And thanks to everyone else on the team for your work and for being here.

## Chat history

Pete LeVasseur
3:05 PM
https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/SJuMdxUdZe
It's still got last time's in it
(Nope, I haven't done it, I dunno if I can or how to do it, sorry)

Nurzhan Saken
3:07 PM
nxsaken

Tshepang Mbambo
3:16 PM
https://meet.google.com/bhv-fdqk-qfz

Tomáš Šedovič
3:16 PM
Ana, hi! We started on another topic first before you joined. We'll get to you right after

Tshepang Mbambo
3:16 PM
https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/656#issuecomment-3876000720

Hristian Kirtchev
3:20 PM
Ana is here, in case we want to take advantage of her time.

Ana Hobden
3:33 PM
https://public-docs.ferrocene.dev/main/qualification/traceability-matrix.html

Pete LeVasseur
3:36 PM
@Ana -- for tool qualification isn't it different? I'm still ignorant though.

It'd be to TCL 3, since it's a tool qualification? Wondering and want to patch my understanding.

Ana Hobden
3:36 PM
Phases and activities that describe the qualification of the Ferrocene toolchain with the TCL 3/ASIL D level in accordance with ISO 26262 standard, the class T3 in accordance with the IEC 61508 standard, and in accordance with the IEC 62304 standard.

Pete LeVasseur
3:48 PM
rigor / "dryness" :D
lol
It costs $2200 USD
Yes, $2200 USD for all parts :)

Pete LeVasseur
3:49 PM
(when I converted this to USD somewhat recently)

Pete LeVasseur
3:51 PM
It should be very unfun and dry to read? ;-;

Pete LeVasseur
3:52 PM
Oooh, formulaic is a good way to put it

Pete LeVasseur
3:54 PM
Speaking of changelog, would the work that Tshepang plans to do for making the glossary be generated directly from main chapter text be something that we put in the changelog and how many alarm bells would this sound for the assessor?

Ana Hobden
3:55 PM
If it semantically changes the output of the FLS, it is something to be put in the chagelog. I am not sure how much it would change the semantic output, so I'm unsure how many alarm bells would happen.
