---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-07-17"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-07-17
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-07-17.20meeting/with/611247956
---

# 2026-07-17 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Tshepang
- Hristian
- Nurzhan

### Regrets

- Everyone else

### Notetaker

- Nurzhan

## Agenda

- Previous action items [minuted]
- [Should we document point releases in changelog](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/708#discussion_r3527338422)
- 1.95.0 [minuted]

## Notes

### Housekeeping

Pete: I'll be in Japan 2026-07-15 to 2026-07-25; could someone draft those agendas and run those meetings?

(Tshepang volunteered.)

Tomáš: I'll be out until 2026-08-10. Nurzhan should be able to take over during that time.

### Prev action items

- [x] Tshepang: Close https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693
- [ ] Pete: Try to resolve threads that look resolvable on https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698
- [ ] Hristian: Look at https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698 after Pete has looked at it.
  - Blocked on Pete.
- [ ] Pete: Follow-back on what Hristian did on https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/707
  - Hristian: Waiting on Pete.
- [ ] Hristian: Describe the workflow of dealing with PR blockers and creating issues for them (https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/712).
  - PR is in review, needs Pete's review.
- [ ] Tshepang: Cut the 1.95 release
- [x] Hristian: Update version numbers on 1.96.0 and 1.96.1 changelog PRs.
- [ ] Hristian: When merged 1.96.0 and 1.96.1 changelog PRs, then he'll cut releases.
- [x] Tshepang: Prepare the 1.97 PR.

### Documenting point releases

Tshepang: Point releases are always bugfixes, and all of them will not be related to FLS.

Hristian: We only document X and Y in X.Y.Z.

Tshepang: We can also ask Pete what he thinks.

### 1.95

Tshepang: Anything you want to discuss?

Hristian: Provenance is waiting on Pete. I replied to your thread about allocation.

Tshepang: Should I read it now or later?

Tshepang: I like your last definition. I'd rather not try to define allocate.

Hristian: ?? is the distinguishing factor between the original pointer and ?? pointer. One is created from allocation, the other from another pointer.

Hristian: There's a clause in the manual I linked to... there's no suitable definition for allocation in Merriam-Webster.

Tshepang: Do you also understand my objection to the original usage of the term?

Hristian: I get the idea, but...

Tshepang: Other specs just assume the reader knows what an allocation is.

Hristian: Allocation is one of those words that signify both the action and the result.

(..)

Hristian: I'm fine with saying that the original pointer is created through an act of allocation or something like that.

Tshepang: Does that match your final text?

Hristian: No, it should match the comment I posted...

Tshepang: I wonder if it's pedantic to say "memory locations" instead of "program memory" in "subset of addressable program memory" (under the definition of original pointer).

Hristian: We agreed to just say something like "the original pointer is created through an act of allocation".

(Conversation resolved.)

Tshepang: But in general, should we avoid "addresses" and stick to "locations"?

Hristian: The Reference and Library use addresses, or both.

Tshepang: I don't think they're standard.

Nurzhan: There's also places, if that's related in any way.

Hristian: Yes, but places are different... In my mind, all of them are different. What we call "memory" is a bunch of gates on a chip, but we use numerical indices to get to those gates. And places is a completely different thing.

Tshepang: Places are more conceptual. Also, what's the difference between variable and binding?

Hristian: Variable is a nameable stack allocation, and you refer to that place by a name. And binding is basically, (looks up the FLS), after you pattern match, you end up with a match arm, and you relate a value that you get by the match to a name, and that relationship is a binding. A relationship between a value and a name. In `let x = 1`, x is a binding, and same in patterns.

Tshepang: Are they largely interchangeable?

Hristian: Bindings usually involve some kind of matching, even if irrefutable.

Tshepang: And when you use it later on, you still call it a binding but can also call it a variable?

Hristian: IMO, better call it a binding because it adds extra semantics on top. Think of a binding as a variable that went through a pattern matching and succeeded in getting a value through that.

### 1.97

Tshepang: I've prepared a draft PR for this. There's just one change.

Hristian: You might want to split the change on entities and resolutions into a separate PR.

## Action items

- [ ] Pete: Try to resolve threads that look resolvable on https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698
- [ ] Pete/Hristian: Look at https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698 after Pete has looked at it.
- [ ] Pete: Follow-back on what Hristian did on https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/707
- [ ] Hristian: Describe the workflow of dealing with PR blockers and creating issues for them (https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/712).
  - PR is in review, needs Pete's review.
- [ ] Tshepang: Cut the 1.95 release
- [ ] Hristian: When merged 1.96.0 and 1.96.1 changelog PRs, then he'll cut releases.