---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-02-06"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-02-06
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-02-06.20meeting/with/572250583
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/r1DaCdGPZx
---

# 2026-02-06 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Eric Huss
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Pete LeVasseur
- Tshepang Mbambo
- Nurzhan Saken
- Tomas Sedovic
- TC

### Regrets

- xx

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- Single source of truth for glossary [minuted]
- [glossary entries in changelog](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/652/changes#r2772037057)
- FLS 1.93.0 updates

## Walk-in topics

(nothing came up)

## Single source of truth for glossary

https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/656

Pete: This is an attempt to address having to maintain the glossary and representations of these terms in chapters all at once. There's often a large overlap. I tried to take the smallest possible step to having these two things exist in a single spot.

Pete: Previously we had a glossary entry with an associated item and then a link that would go back to the syntax item for it. Instead of splitting that between the chapter, let's collocate both contexts in the same chapter, in the same place so it's easier to audit what's there.

Pete: Some things were glossary-only. We allow those too, be located in the same chapter and then the generated document would show them in the glossary and not in the chapter if there's no chapter-specific code.

Pete: A goal is to have the `generated-glossary.rst` be identical to `glossary.rst` byte-for-byte. Same for the generated `paragraph-ids.json`.

Hristian: The direction would be: chapter -> glossary, is that right? The chapter has the `:t:` roles and the `:dt:`s would remain in the glossary. I thought we'd go from the glossary to the text. You'd see the full definition in the text and also associated definition semantics.

Pete: I'm fine with that, but I've found a paragraph that has multiple `:dt:`s that's in the glossary.

Hristian: We should split that.

Pete: I started that way, but I hit that and so tried this way instead. It's the smallest bit of work I could do.

Hristian: We should fix that. I wish there was a high-level goal for this.

Hristian: Having the `:dt:` in the chapter has a benefit that you can jump directly to the chapter text to get to the definition without having to go through the glossary first.

Pete: Yes. There are also `:dt:`s in the chapter that don't have an associated glossary text. So there's more we can do, but I'm trying to do the first small step in the direction.

Tshepang: Agreed with what Hristian said. It's great to have the tooling because that way we can jump directly across chapters. And we just need to find the gaps and inconsistencies. Are we going to change the name of the glossary or keep it the same?

Pete: If it ends with `.rst` it's picked up by sphinx. There are best practices of doing things like having `.rst.inc` and then having a directive to process it. I think we need a glossary checked-in. An artifact in the repo. But we also need to be able to wholly generate it from the chapter. We can have a flag that will regenerate it, but not a default. And I'm trying to add something to the CI where it compares the generated version to the checked-in one and make sure they don't differ.

Hristian: I was looking at the changes. Did you transition all the terms for to the chapters?

Pete: I did all of them.

Pete: Any questions?

Eric: Nothing from me. Sounds like a good idea.

TC: Same.

## [glossary entries in changelog](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/652/changes#r2772037057)

## FLS 1.93.0 updates

tshepang: Some are merged. Some are open. 

Pete: Took last remaining unclaimed issue. Also, see: https://github.com/PLeVasseur/fls/pull/4. Pete will open this one up on the rust-lang repo after sufficient audit.

Pete: Done and merged by next time we meet up?

Hristian + Tshepang: Seems reasonable. We'll be within our budget.

Hristian: Took 3 issues, 2 PRs have been merged, have to produce a changelog entry for the last one.

## Next time

Pete: Let's dedicate next time to learning more of how the FLS is used in practice by the assessor by Ferrous Systems when safety-qualifying versions of the Rust compiler.

Tshepang: Will check into if it's possible to have someone come by.

Hristian: Ada-related certification/qualification involes the Ada Reference Manual (ARM), an official ISO document. Assessors most likely review the ARM, traceability from ARM to requirements. AdaCore does not modify the ARM.
