---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-01-23"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-01-23
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/meeting.202026-01-23/with/569573780
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/r1VqKgxIZg
---

# 2026-01-23 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

Alex Celeste, Eric Huss, Hristian Kirtchev, Pete LeVasseur, TC, Tshepang Mbambo, Tomas Sedovic

Driver: Pete
Minutes: Tomas


## Agenda

agenda items
- walk-in topics?
- [Drop order in patterns PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631) - q&a and look for blockers
- Project Goal for FLS Team in 2026 - [Proposal](https://hackmd.io/@plevasseur/ByNOWNeLWl)
- ["misc coercion cleanups and handle safety correctly" PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/148602)
    - it has no corresponding Reference change
- picking items for [Rust 1.93 changes](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/645)

## [Drop order in patterns PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631) - q&a and look for blockers

Pete: Have you had a chance to look at it? Are there any blockers? There were some further improvements Hristian wanted to make.

Hristian: I fixed the heading of sections in a separate PR.

Pete: Any blocking concerns? Hristian gave his LGTM. There were some comments from TC, are they still open?

TC: I looked over it yesterday and resolved what I could do there and then. There's one on the algorithm that I haven't looked in detail yet.

Pete: Do you think you could look at it maybe next week?

TC: What are we doing on the algorithm? What was the textual approach?

Pete: We flattened it to pattern matching. We referred to them as pattern that would allow you to recurse back to the top of the function to figure out whether it's an identifier/or/etc. pattern. You finish when you find a match.

TC: So before it said "for each subpattern do ..." and you took out the explicit loop and now it's inductively defined by recursing back onto itself?

Pete: Exactly.

TC: What does the Reference do there?

Pete: There's a separate section for or-patterns in the Refernce. You match on one or two/more subpatterns. The write-up is different. Seems like it's less operational -- not written as an algorithm. It's not a series of steps in the tight way that FLS does.

Hristian: In the Reference the individual pattern matching sections are sprinkled around the entire Reference. We decided to put them all together in one space. E.g. in the Reference there's a special section under Unions that describes pattern matching in the unions. Other cases are in the Patterns chapter.

Eric: Is there a particular line in the PR we're looking at?

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631/changes#diff-d1c0a0d745c417c6c74818c3cfed70a1031a403da1f9cd3ca239304af2b73b7bR1299

TC: Don't you have a left recursion in how you define this?

Pete: I think you're correct.

TC: It's OK; it terminates.

Hristian: Yes it should terminate.

Pete: You can be recursing on the left-hand side, but then you find one you match on, you succeed and then you back out. What's the issue with left recursion?

TC: In the PEG-style grammar we use in the Reference you can't left-recurse.

Pete: What happens if I leave the or pattern matching to the bottom?

TC: Then it would be right-recursive.

(Pete had to step away)

Eric: I think it makes sense, you're starting with the top-down approach, you take the "or"s, process them, recurse into it. I like the top down approach usually.

Eric: Hristian, does the preview bot Ferrocene used to have work here or not? You could send a command and it would give you a rendered version of this PR.

Hristian: I wasn't aware that existed. That would be nice!

Tshepang + TC: agreed

Eric: The Reference renders it, but it doesn't actually serve it elsewhere. The old version probably won't work -- it uses AWS and the we've having difficulty to get AWS buckets from the infra team.

Pete: Did we arrive at a conclusion?

TC: Eric, are you happy with the way the Reference presents it or should we solicit a PR to present it in a different way?

Eric: Does the Reference present this at all?

TC: We have a section on or-patterns

Pete: Another thing we should talk about is: do we need to minute the PRs? Let's talk about the project goals now and then let Tomas go.


## Project Goal for FLS Team in 2026 - [Proposal](https://hackmd.io/@plevasseur/ByNOWNeLWl)

Pete: I was asked whether there was a Project goal for the FLS for 2026. I think a reasonable goal could be releasing the FLS a few weeks after the stable Rust release. We landed on 6 weeks -- lagging one version behind the compiler.

Pete: That's what the goal's saying: let's mature our process so we can do this sustainably. Thoughts/concerns?

Hristian: Sounds like a reasonable cadence.

Tshepang: +1

Alex: I don't have a strong feelings at this point. Still trying to understand what's going on.

TC: It's a good goal. It puts everything on the clock. How do we plan to keep on the clock?

Pete: Some of what we've already started doing: when new Rust comes out, we break the diff up into issues.

TC: Seems okay but it's always challenging for the team to be on the clock.

Eric: 1.92 and 1.93 -- do those have any changes or is it just changelog?

Tshepang: 92 didn't have any, 93 has a few.

Eric: Did you want to start 6 weeks early (e.g. when Beta starts you'd say "we're preparing 1.94")

Tsehpang: I'd rather we worked off of a stable release. I don't want to have to deal with things being reverted in Beta. That's rare but happens. I don't want to revert anything from the FLS.

TC: If you're on the clock, isn't having extra 6 weeks you have to take out some part of the change? And the work's not even wasted -- when you take it out, you'll end up putting it in the next release so you just save it.

Eric: A challenge with that is it's hard to know when something's reverted. Even I struggle with that.

TC: But for the FLS you have to go through the changelog item by item anyway.

Tshepang: Normally, the release notes are only released a week before the stable release. If we have to track that ourselves, we'd have to be more involved -- to pay closer attention to what's changing. I'm not sure we have the capacity for that.

TC: Question to Pete, if the team is on the clock, does it mean it's worth pushing further back to have more time?

Eric: Yes, by starting with beta, you get a couple weeks extra.

Pete: I see, so we'd start with the beta period but still plan to release at the N+1 version. So this would extend our window?

Eric: Yes.

Hristian: Isn't the maximum window only 6 weeks? Doesn't the extra weeks eat into your next beta?

Eric: It's 6-12 weeks. If one release takes you 8 weeks then you have fewer weeks next time, but you keep your flexibility.

TC: Eric's saying the FLS releases at the same time. Always six weeks after the stable release. It's about the earliest day we can start our work on that. From the Project side we close the release when Beta gets cut. Which is 6 weeks before the release gets cut. We almost never make any lang changes. Very likely what gets into Beta it's going to be what's in the stable release. So from a docs standpoint, if you take that extra 6 weeks, you've got 12 weeks overall. It is overlapping, but if we're parallelizing, we get 12 rather than 6 weeks overall.

Tshepang: If we're to start taking beta changes, how do you see what's happening? Do you look at some beta tags?

TC: There's a bot that automatically creates issues for text for release notes. All the relnotes issues start to be there at the beginning of the beta period. And there's a draft issue for the release notes too. You can look at that issue, look at the pending relnotes items and go through those.

Tshepang: I've only seen those around a week or two before the standard release.

TC: They're up early.

(Pete started drawing a diagram to understand the timing, illustrating what we talked about)

https://link.excalidraw.com/l/AIMnRRMYTcm/2cUZp10D2Ky

Tshepang: In the beta period, the FLS would benefit the Rust project by providing an extra set of eyes. That's appealing. I just don't know whether we have time to do that. I'm cool with experimenting with this.

Eric: I'm looking now and I don't think the Release team has been starting the draft notes ahead of time as much as we thought. It's been a bit sporadic:

1.93 release note issue was 2 weeks before release: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/150760
Converted to a PR 1 week before release: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/151230
Here's the release notes for 1.94: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Arelnotes-tracking-issue%20milestone%3A1.94.0
But they are not consolidated or updated.

TC: All the relnotes issues go up right away because those are automated. You can look at the labels to see what the issues are going to be.

Pete: I'm also open to experimenting, but we need to look closer into the information we'll need. And it does imply at least occasionally having to modify the FLS release we're working on. If there's something we could look at for the language-level changes at least we could look at it.

Eric: Look at the milestone relnotes tracking issue above, you can see what's planed there. There's an issue created by a tool that consolidates that, but they don't run it before 2 weeks before the release. So you'd have to look at the individual line.

Pete: Can we ask them? Maybe add it as part of the goal?

Eric: You could ask in Zulip. But you just see the PR title and you have to click through it.

Pete: Is that the reality you're working with?

Eric: We block changes until we understand what they are so we can management. But our goal is to have that part of the process intertwined with the lang team itself. The lang team has documentation that's sufficient for them to understand what's being stabilized.

Pete: We should put that lookback into beta as a stretch-goal for 2026. And I can look into what that would involve for the stretch goal to be viable.

Tshepang: I suggest we watch the Reference the PR gets merged. Then we know which release is that a part of and then we can write our own notes. That would be more reliable and actionable than asking the Release team changing their process.

TC: Side note, we can filter those relnotes issues further by limiting to lang (and subteam) relnotes issue:

https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20label%3Arelnotes-tracking-issue%20label%3At-lang%2Ct-types%2Ct-opsem%20milestone%3A1.94.0

TC: My feeling is you have to click through the PRs anyway. To evaluate things and document them, you'll have to click through all the stabilization PRs. If you start with this list, this looks like a pretty good approximation that's going to be relevant or at least evaluated for relevance. I'd start there: look at all the issues, click through all the stabilization PRs and decide what has relevance.

Pete: Is this a reasonable starting point for replacing the milestone string with e.g. 1.95, etc. Can we bless this search parameter?

TC: This is it, yes.

Eric: Normally, these get tracked well. Every once a while people forget to tag things correctly.

Pete: Do you show up every once in a while and do a similar search? How do you approach that?

TC: We don't. I'm on Lang and I see it before we make the change. If I miss it, Eric catches it.

Tomas: Do you need to watch the compiler changes?

TC: You do need to watch to at the compiler side. You need to make sure things that should go to Lang actually go to Lang. Sometimes people miss going through the Lang process. If people miss going through lang we won't know to document it. If you're watching the compiler side, you have to look at things that have missing documentation.

Pete: So, what do we think about looking at this listing and going through it?

Tshepang: To me, a more reliable way is to look at things when they get stabilized.

Eric: There isn't always a PR for the Reference. If there's a change or fix in the compiler where the Reference was already correct we don't change anything. But the FLS might be out of sync there. So looking at just that as a signal might be a bit tricky. The compiler release notes would be your best option.

Tshepang: In that case I'd still want to start at the stable release.

Hristian: If we have to do it, we have to do it.

Eric: I was just making an off-hand suggestion to give you more flexibility. If looking at the actual release notes that get published is more reliable, maybe best stick with that for now. And you could start looking at the beta stuff early when you feel you could.

Pete: I do want to learn. But for now, I want to stabilize the release cadence, but I'll mention it would be good to start looking at these ahead of time.

***

Eric: For 1.93 there doesn't seem like there's anything to change, is that correct?

Tshepang: There are a few things we have to change. I've just opened the PR for the changelog.

## ["misc coercion cleanups and handle safety correctly" PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/148602)


## picking items for [Rust 1.93 changes](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/645)
