---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-05-08"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-05-08
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/2026-05-08.20meeting/with/593774647
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/BJYLt8j0Zl
---

# 2026-05-08 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Hristian Kirtchev
- Tshepang Mbambo
- TC
- Nurzhan Saken

### Regrets

- Eric Huss
- Alex Celeste
- Pete LeVasseur
- Tomas Sedovic

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- 1.95.0 updates [minuted]
- t-release reach out [minuted]
- Progress towards generated glossary! [minuted]
- Developer's guide [minuted]

### Walk-in topics

#### Room at the Rust All-Hands?

Pete failed to book this :face_holding_back_tears: 

Nurzhan: Might still be possible to book a session.

Hristian: Who's going? (Nurzhan, Tshepang and Pete.)

### 1.95.0 updates

Stubbed changelog entries merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/692

First 1.95.0 entry marked as not relevant for FLS merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/697/changes

Remaining PRs:
- document Closure capture precision: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/698
- document preservation of padding in operations on pointers: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/695
- document missing import restrictions: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/694
- document if let guards: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/693

Tshepang: I don't have updates, do you?

Hristian: I'll start making suggestions so we could start converging. I don't know what Pete has in mind, so we need something concrete. He's a good reviewer and spots a lot of stuff.

Tshepang: We still have three weeks for the project goal.

Hristian: Didn't 1.95 already go out?

Tshepang: Yes, but the goal is to release the FLS before the next version.

Hristian: It might still be tight.

Tshepang: Are you good so far for 1.95?

Hristian: Sure. I have to read Pete's comments and understand the discrepancies.

Tshepang: Pete's reviews force me to examine my gaps and review everything. Pete also brings up policies which makes me think.

### FLS fixes / amendments

not all functions implement Fn traits: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/696

separate structure demo from parent chapter: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/699

Tshepang: Did you approve the fix?

Hristian: Yes, the fix is already in.

Tshepang: No movement on t-release work, and no movement on the glossary automation on my end.

### t-release reach out

Zulip topic: [t-fls would like to help you (and help ourselves) with notes](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/241545-t-release/topic/t-fls.20would.20like.20to.20help.20you.20.28and.20help.20ourselves.29.20with.20notes/with/583878392)

### Progress towards generated glossary!

Tracking issue: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/680

Latest PR is ensure all terms in glossary also exist in main text: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/689

### Over-linking

Hristian: To give some background, overlinking is when you take a paragraph, all of its terms will be linked, even if repeated. Question: Is it worth linking a term that's already been linked in the same paragraph?

Tshepang: We can decide as a team. To me, it feels like overkill, especially if it's exactly the same thing. You can use the term or a normal English word...

Hristian: The reason we decided to overlink is because if you take an arbitrary sentence and you don't know what all the contents of the sentence mean, you should be able to click and see what it means. Another goal is to point out that the words in the sentence carry special Rust-related semantics rather than plain English. A different way to view the overlinking issue is when editing a paragraph, tracking if a term has been linked to is a burden.

Tshepang: Let's keep it simple and not overthink it.

Hristian: Wikipedia links only once per article.

Tshepang: Sometimes I wish it overlinked a little. For us,  linking once per paragraph might be a nice balance. There shouldn't be so much ambiguity for us to be strict about linking. I also don't have a strong opinion, so I won't mind if someone has one.

Hristian: For me, it doesn't come up that much.

Tshepang: I guess one of us can add it to the dev guide...

TC: In the Reference, we link once per paragraph.

Tshepang: Is it in the Reference dev guide?

TC: I don't know, but it's unambiguously the pattern we follow.

Tshepang: I wish Reference had a slightly bigger glossary. When I go over it, I'm not always sure what is meant. Maybe it's a little too informal or conversational, which takes away from precision.

TC: It's just that nobody has written them yet. Someone just put together a new entry on zero-sized types, and we worked with that person to iterate on it and get it merged. Making any change requires getting it right, which is hard and reminds you of the complexity. We're absolutely interested in people filling out the glossary.

Tshepang: Cool. My action item is adding the linking rule to the FLS dev guide.

Hristian: I was planning to do that to take away from your plate.

Tshepang: Go for it. I'm not done with the (1.95) reviews.

## Action items

* Hristian: Add a section to the Dev Guide about linking terms.
